# REST API Introduction

Using our [REST](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_state_transfer) API, you can make Calendar42 do pretty much anything planning related you want. The only thing left to do for you is showing up!

## Request an API token

Request an [API Token](/rest-api/api-tokens/) to start developing!

## Authorization

The C42 authorization scheme uses token-based HTTP Authorization. For clients to authorize a token key should be included in the `Authorization` HTTP header.

The key should be prefixed by either the string literal `Token` or `ActionToken`, with whitespace separating the key and the string. For example:

* `'Authorization': 'Token 9944b09199c62bcf9418ad846dd0e4bbdfc6ee4b'`
* `'Authorization': 'ActionToken 9944b09199c62bcf9418ad846dd0e4bbdfc6ee4b'`

## Server Tokens: `Token`

Server Tokens give access to all data related to a user on the C42 platform. These are often used to sync data between third party systems.

* Server Tokens are created upon request
* Server Tokens give access to the data throught the relationships the user has to services, calendars and events, the user needs to be active
* Server Tokens should not be shared or embedded in web-apps

## Action Tokens: `ActionToken`

ActionTokens are more strict then regular Tokens and only allow a certain subset of API endpoints to be requested. These are often used to generate a temporary way of accessing data in a sem-public way.

* Action Tokens are generated by C42 internally
* Action Tokens can point to one endpoints related to a specif object-id, or contain regular expressions
* Action Tokens still belong to a certain C42 user, however, the user doesn't need to be active
* Action Tokens can be communicated through e-mail

## References

* [Usage](/rest-api/usage/)
* [Constants](/rest-api/constants/)
* [Objects](/rest-api/objects/)
* [Endpoints](/rest-api/endpoints/)

## Interactive documentation

* [Interactive API documentation](https://calendar42.com/api)
